Solve Snakes and ladder problem, Given all the inputs for the board.
We can roll the dice, as we want to. Need to find the shortest path to reach the 100 level from the starting of the path. Various other questions were asked on the basis of that only.

Given a file with millions of words, need to find top K words on the basis of occurrence.

Given a list a1,a2,a3….an. Comparison between elements is given like a1>a2, a3>a5, a4>a2…..etc. We need to find whether is there any situation that we can sort the list in to the ascending order on the basis of comparison. Yes or No , explain the conditions


 Need to write a fully functionally and working code for a problem statement. Problem is to write the code for maintaining a directory for any organization where employee will have id, name, post and manager as attribute. Basically two features need to be implemented: (a). Should be able to do searching on the basis of name, prefix search for the name should also be supported, (b). For any employee, we can get the list of all the subordinates which comes under him/her, like for ceo , all the employees list should get displayed

2. No database is needed, memory storage was asked to used for this

3. Code should be extendable so that new attributes for the employee can be added

4. Approach for maintaining the structure and optimality in searching for required.

 Given a file containing billions of words, need to find top K words. Other variations like the file size is 100 MB and we can read only a chunk of data at a time, how to maintain that, etc

 Given a series 2,3,4,5,6,8,9,10,……, here in this series all the numbers are present which have factors only and only either 2,3 or 5. Need to write a node to generate nth number for the series . With best approach and complexity

 Given a Alien language, we have the dictionary of that language , but we have only very few words, but they are all arranged in the lexicographical order. We need to first find whether we will be able to get a alphabetical order or not, if yes explain approach

 code for how to create deadlock

detail discussion on synchronied keyword, both in the cases of class static functions and instance functions

 Given a number n where n means 0,1,2,3….n-1. Compute the no of BST which can be formed using this range as input in any order


Remove minimum elements from either side such that 2*min becomes more than max

 Reverse a stack without additional data structure.

 Given a series of stock costs for a number of days.Find two days on which a person should buy and sell stock for maximum profit.
(The solution breaks to finding two numbers in an array with maximum difference such that the smaller number appears before the greater number) .
2. Given any pointer(it can be head or any other node) to a sorted cyclic linked list and a number .Insert the number in the list without disturbing the order.All the edge cases to be taken care of

 Difference between primary key and unique constraint.
 
 Google<<<<
 
 Manually calculate bits in 146
 
 Tell difference between big endian and little endian
 
 Find minimum number of steps to reach the end of array from start (array value shows how much you can move). DP question
 
 Round 1
1) Design question based on storing images.Stress on performance and scale.
2) Divide number and return result. e.g 100/3 result should be 33.(3) and 5/10 should be 0.5

Round 2
1) Median of stream of numbers
2) Question like pancake sorting where you can

Round 3
1) Find count of number in sorted array. Obviously binary search question.
2) Design two player battleship game to be played over internet

Round 4
1) Design question based on wearable devices.
2) Draw a line on 2D array of boolean.
only swap to sort an array of characters.

Round 5
1) Compare two documents(string array) based on n grams.
e.g doc1 – Today is Sunday.
doc2 – Today is Saturday
if n = 2 then number of duplicates is 1 (Today is) and if n =2 then number of duplicates is (Today, is)


Given a shared memory between multiple threads, how will you ensure safe access to memory in different scenarios like reading and writing? If at thr point of wrtitng there are mutiple read requests from threads how pending requests can be managed.

Q3: Given an array that has positive numbers and negative numbers and zero in it. You need to seperate the negative numbers and positive numbers in such a way that negative numbers lies to left of zero and positive numbers to the right and the original order of elements should be maintained

 Given 4 youtube servers which are processing user requests.
i> At any given time If someone requests for currently running videos, then return the number of videos running at a time.
ii> Which server will actually get the request ?
iii> How the servers will communicate with each other ?
iv> Other methods to do this task to reduce overhead on servers?
v> How many videos running given a time constraint ?


MsExcel columns has a pattern like
A B C … Z
AA AB AC…. AZ BA BB … ZZ
AAA AAB
A has code 1
Z has code 26
AA has code 27
AAA has code 626
given a number return a column name as string



Given a circular array and a pointer find the given element in the array.

Customer Producer problem,
2. Semaphore
3. Deadlock how to solve it.

Given a sorted array find the number of BSTs you can form.

Given a function to getFriends that gets a list of profiles of friends of a particular friend, implement a function to get the shortest path between two given profiles.

Given a matrix with each cell containing each number of candies, and a constraint that you can move only right or down, from the top left corner to the bottom right corner, find the path that gets you maximum candies.

Given a continuous stream of strings, maintain strings such that duplicate are eliminated on the fly. The interviewer wanted working code. So coded the solution during the interview and emailed it to him 10 mins after.
So if you get “Ted”, “John”, “Mark”, “Ted”, “David”, at the moment in
time, the list should contain John, Mark, David.


Explain how mail server works.

3. Tell about the routing algorithms you know.

4. How is the data transferred across the network. Through what type of packets, is 

mail delivered?

5. Difference between TCP/IP and UDP.

6. What are the functionalities of and Operating System?

7. How does OS schedule processes ?

8. What type of scheduling algorithm is used widely ?

9. How does OS replace processes in memory ?

10. How does OS detects if a deadlock has happened ?

11. When you type an SQL query in interpreter, what does happen ? How is the 

query processed ?

12. What is Primary Key, Foreign Key ?

13. Should Foreign key needs to be primary key of another table ?

14. What is index ? How it is implemented ?

15. How is the data stored in the database ?

16. Why Java doesn’t support Multiple Inheritance ?

17. What are the advantages and disadvantages of Multiple inheritance ?

18. Tell us about the design patterns you know. I told about MVC and explained.

19. Do you know about Factory Design pattern ?

20. Write a simple class which implements Singleton design pattern. Applications of 

singleton design pattern. Why don’t we declare the class itself as static class ? 

Why don’t we declare all the members as static ?


Given billion numbers in a file, get the top 10 numbers from it.

5. Write code to implement Hashmap in Java. It should accept any datatype and 

also objects.

6. Provide a high level class design for cab management system. Finding available 

car anytime and booking it, customers, orders, etc.

Given a binary tree, how would you serialize it, store in a file and then re-creates

it again from the file ?

First I have told, heap based approach to store at 2i +1, 2i + 2 locations. Then 

I am asked to reduce space. Then with hint, I was able to store the tree as pre-
order traversal string, which also has characters to denote the NULL, and was 

able to reconstruct back using recursion.



2. Given a dataset below,

Name Score Rank

A 50 1

B 40 2

C 30 3

D 20 4

E 10 5.

Name is a string and Rank is inversely proportional to the scores.

What type of data structures would you use to store these data to perform the 

following operations ?

1. Get Name and Score Given Rank

2. Get Score and Rank Given Name

3. Update Score Given Name.

Initially told, can store Name in trie ADT and store score and rank at leaf nodes. 

Later realized it is not best approach.

Then with hint, came up with the approach of using hash for storing Name and 

array of struct for storing Score. Hash will have key, value as Name and pointer 

to the index of array.

3 operations would cost O(1), O(1) and nlogn operations respectively. We need 

to sort array each time a score is updated.

Then I was asked to reduce the complexity of 3rd operation at the cost of 1st 

operation.

Then with hint, came up with using balanced binary search tree to store the

scores.

Parse a string and return if it is valid or not based on given patterns.It should contain only
“1? or “12? or “122? ONLY

There is a device driver that reads from a camera and writes a stream of bytes (captured frames) into a buffer. There also is a viewer that reads from this same buffer. The device driver and viewer do not communicate with each other other than through this buffer. Design and code this scenario. You may choose the data structure of the buffer per your liking. Please note that there may be multiple viewers.

Given a binary search tree of positive integers, if all the nodes are multiplied with -1 then is it still a BST? If not, reconstruct to one.(Mirror tree code)

Given an array of random unique integers, find the indices x,y,z such that a[x] 2)Given a ransom note and a magazine as Strings , find if the note can be made out of the magazine or not.
3)Modified the second question to real time scenario where in , the magazine has print on both sides and only one side can be used.

There is a matrix mat[m][n] with entries as 0 or 1 When you are at 1 you can move in all the eight directions and when at 0, you have to return back. Find the number of cluster of 1's

e.g. input  { {1,1,0,0,0},
             {1,0,0,1,0},
             {0,0,0,1,1},
             {1,0,1,0,0}  }
output 3

clusters ((0,0),(0,1),(1,0))    
         (1,2),(2,2),(2,3),(3,2)        
         (3,0)
At Bit level, how will you find if a number is a power of 2 or not.

 A number starting from 1 can be got by either multiplying 3 or adding 5 to it. Given a number, find the sequence of operations to get it or say it’s not possible.
e.g: 13 is 1 * 3 + 5 + 5 but 15 you cannot get.

How many times does the minutes’ hand cross the hours’ hand during one day?

Given an array which can contain either 0s or 1s, write an algorithm to find the length of the longest subarray of all 1s and all 0s

Design an e-commerce system for me using block diagrams and architecture diagrams. What components will you use and why? What does each component do?

 Give me an example of a machine learning algorithm which you will use for giving suggestions on a e-commerce website.

Design a database schema for an Android app which calculates your GPA and stores it in a SQL database


	Given n appointments with the start time, end time and a boolean variable hasConfilct, we have to set the boolean variable hasConflict of those appointments that conflict with the other appointments.

Example:  Appointment1: (2:00-3:00)
	  Appointment2: (2:30-3:30)
	  Appointment3: (4:00-6:00) 
I have to set the the hasConflict of Appointment 1 and 2 as true.
Initially, I did it in O(n^2). But then he asked me to optimize the solution. After some discussion, I was able to solve it in O(nlogn).

Given that at Amazon.in the details page of an item shows only one field that is dynamically picked up from the database, we have to improve the performance according to the line:
“80% of the users visit details page of 20% of products.”
I said we could store these 20% on the web server so that we don’t have to fetch the item details from database everytime. He asked me where and how will i store it. I answered Main memory and will use BST to store it. Then after a lot of discussion(about 30 mins) on how will the get and put operations be used, he was satisfied with the solution.

When a single threaded application is converted to multi-threaded applications, what kind of changes operating system has to make?

5.	What steps are taken when the os shifts from one-thread execution to another?

Given a sentence say, “I love Intuit and Intuit loves me”, find the number of times the word “Intuit” occurs in the sentence.
I asked him, any language restrictions or any other constraints. He told any language, but it has to be better than brute force and the coding standards must be production level with all exceptions taken care of, properly modularized and neatly structured.
I first told him my approach and he was satisfied. I wrote the code in Java.

2. He extended the question. Assume you have 2 million files with some text in it. How do you find the number of times the word “Intuit” occurs in all these files. I suggested an approach with O(n), but he said it can be better optimized.

Given a linked list which contains series of numbers seperated by “0?. Add them and store in the linked list in-place.

for eg : i/p linked list is 1->2->3->0->5->4->0->3->2->0
o/p Linked list is 6->9->5 

Given a binary tree and value V. delete all the leaf nodes whose values are equal to V. It must handle all cases for example if u delete both leaf from a node Say B. Then the node B also becomes the leaf node.

Convert a string into a string without duplicates without changing the order of characters IN PLACE. EG: Input: Bananas Output: Bans.

given a 2d character array and u r allowed to move down, left, diagonal down and form a string and check whether that string is present in the dictionary or not.
ans. i gave him backtracking approach and he saw that and he asked whether i can improve it little more. i gave binary search solution for searching in the dictionary and he told me that i can use prefix checks also. then i made use of it. Then he moved to second question.


