 Find minimum # elements to be removed from int array so that max element is <= 2x of min element

For given array a of size n we create a set of a[i] , a[a[i]] , a[a[a[i]]] ….. i varies from 0 to n-1 , find the max size of such set.

: Find min element at given level in binary tree
Design multiple stacks in a Single one big int array as efficient as possible ( real world example multiple process function stacks creation and deletion in memory of linux os )

Design in-memory file system.


Given an array of integers and a number x, find the smallest subarray with sum greater than the given value.

Examples:
arr[] = {1, 4, 45, 6, 0, 19}
   x  =  51
Output: 3
Minimum length subarray is {4, 45, 6}

Create a matrix with alternating rectangles of O and X
Write a code which inputs two numbers m and n and creates a matrix of size m x n (m rows and n columns) in which every elements is either X or 0. The Xs and 0s must be filled alternatively, the matrix should have outermost rectangle of Xs, then a rectangle of 0s, then a rectangle of Xs, and so on.

Examples:

Input: m = 3, n = 3
Output: Following matrix 
X X X
X 0 X
X X X

Given a string of parenthesis, write a function if it is balanced.

Find the number of occurrences of words in a paragraph.

 Difference between Dijkstra and BFS.

If you have two eggs, how many max steps you need to find the floor, from which the eggs break.

2. Is a heap a complete binary tree?
3. Asked What is hashmap.
     a. What happens when two numbers map to same key?
     b. how does chaining work?
     c. What to do when you have a bad hashing function, and only we can modify the structure of hashmap not hashing function?
     d. What do to when you your hashmap is filled completely (as in all the linked list are filled up to their capacity)



1. What is quicksort?
     a. What is complexity when all elements are sorted and how can you improve it? (Randomization)
     b. Will randomization work when elements are same?
     c. What algorithms sort equal elements in O(n) time ?
     d. using the information, how can you improve quick-sort? Think about it, its good. Don’t want to spoil it for you by writing answer here.
     e. implement this modification.

2. Given two river banks (visualization : two parallel lines), one bank has numbers written (1….n) in sorted order. On the other bank the numbers (1…n) are arranged randomly. A bridge can be formed from the ith point from bank 1 to ith point in bank 2. Find the max number of non-intersecting bridges you can form?

3. Given 1…n , and given some statements like i hates j, then find some arrangement of n numbers such that if i hates j then in the arrangement i comes before j. Say 1 hates 2, then 123456789 is acceptable but 213456789 is not.

4. Asked about internet. What happens when you type a URL on your browser?

3. Implement a calculator which takes a maths expression and evaluates it and prints the result.
4. Given statements like A is connected to B. D is connected to E. And transitive connections are allowed. Write a code which takes input such connected statements and and two numbers i and j and returns true if i and j are connected (can be transitively), and false if not connected.


U have given 10 files and you have given a string suggest data structure which ll facilitate efficient search of string in the file if string appears more than ones in that case u have to print line number and file in which they appear.

Few question related to OS what is deadlock, Race-condition, Semaphore and many more, few question Related to DBMS what is Normalization define all normal forms(I directly told him I don’t remember I read it in 5th semester )

U have given 10 files each having 1 million integer in sorted order, physical memory have size of 3 million suggest method to extract 1 million integer in sorted form efficiently.
Write a program to convert a decimal number into binary your code should work on both big endian and small endian machine. U have given a variable which tell u whether machine is big endian or small endian

You have given M array each of size n all array are sorted separately write a program to make a big sorted array of size m*n . during discussion he told me to prove many lemma like height of tree is log(n)( for n elements) sum of n natural number is (n*n+1)/2 and many more. He modified problem many times don’t use extra space do it in space etc. discussion went on for almost 1 hour but at the end he was happy with the solutions(I suggested 2 method and further optimization in them.

 Given a sorted array of numbers. Construct a balanced binary tree with the numbers in the Array as keys.

 Sort an almost sorted Array. An almost sorted Array being an Array in which a number is at the most k positions away from its position in the sorted Array.

You are given a 2D grid in which each cell is either empty, contains an entry “D” which stands for Door, or an entry “W” which stands for wall (Obstacle). You can move in any of the four directions from each empty position in the grid. Of course you cannot move into a cell that has “W” in it. You need to fill each empty cell with a number that represents the distance of the closest door to that cell. (They asked me only for the Algo as there wasn’t much time).


 Given a 2D (Rectangular) grid of points. You need to find the shortest path from a given source point to a destination point. You can only move up or right. Now among these points, there a few special points from which you can directly jump to the diagonally opposite point (Top-Right diagonal). You are granted a function which when invoked on the point returns 1 if it is a special point and 0 if it is not.

2. You are given a sequence of black and white horses, and a set of k stables numbered 1 to k. You have to accommodate the horses into the stables in such a way that the following conditions are satisfied:

a. You fill the horses into the stables preserving the order of horses. For instance, you cannot put for horse 1 into stable 2 and horse 2 into stable 1. You have to preserve the ordering of horses.

b. No stable should be empty and No horse should be left unaccommodated.

c. Take the product (number of white horses * number of black horses) for each stable and take the sum of all these products. This value should be the minimum among all possible accommodation arrangements.

 Given a floor of dimensions 2 x W and tiles of dimensions 2 x 1, write code to find the number of ways the floor can be tiled.

3. Given a graph, if we were to print all nodes within k hops of a given node, which algorithm would we use, the answer to this was obviously a Breadth first search. He followed it up asking, if one were to use Depth first search instead to code this problem instead, one would encounter bloated running times for Graphs with certain attributes (Perhaps Dense graphs or some such). Describe what types of graphs would a DFS algorithm falter with and why.

Round 6 (Telephonic Interview):
1. Given that you want to maintain a backend for a bookstore Application that would store names of Authors and books, such that the application can return all the books written by a specific Author and all the Authors of a specific book which is specified in a query. The query can be such that only a substring of the Authorname or the bookname is specified and all the matches should be returned. I proposed a trie based solution, and was asked to code the solution on a collabedit shared document.

2. Describe multithreading.

3. Describe all the processes that happen between you typing in a URL and the webpage appearing on your screen.

4. What is a singleton set What is the data storage model (Data structures) used to store records in a relational Database.

5. Given an Array containing numbers between 1 to n, out of which 1 number is missing, find the missing number.

Design a LRU cache.


.	Given two sorted linked lists. You start with a one of the two lists and then move till the end. You may switch to the other list only at the point of intersection (which mean the two node with the same value in different lists.) You have to find the path of maximum sum

  Eg
  1->3->30->90->120->240->511
  0->3->12->32->90->125->240->249
  You can switch at 3 90 or 240 so the max sum paths is
  1->3->12->32->90->125->240->511 
2.	Design a contact list for a cell phone which can add & search really quick and is scalable.

Machine coding round
1.	Write a program which should create a parse tree, find invalid query and do some optimizations.
Input: fist line contains the list of columns. There will be subsequent lines which will contain the query as follows.

   EMP_ID, EMP_NAME, EMP_DEPT, EMP_AGE

   SELECT EMP_ID,EMP_NAME where EMP_ID>5 AND EMP_NAME=’robert’

   SELECT EMP_AGE WHERE (EMP_NAME=’robert’ AND EMP_ID=5) AND 
                        (EMP_ID=32) OR (EMP_ID= 32) 
ONSITE INTERVIEWs
1.	Design a Synchronized Message broker queues. How will you handle various situations like one queue is down, automatic failover, active master selection, handling acked and unackedmessages.
2.	Design a site like book my show. It was an open ended question so I concentrated on inventory management. List all entities, classes objects modules and their interactions.
3.	Design a secure Card storage system. Again open ended but the concentration was on encryption and decryption
4.	HR round. What are your strength and weaknesses, what did you do that made you happy. What was your best contribution till date.
5.	Design a Traffic signal . List all entities and classes involved. How will you handle pedestrian crossings etc.
6.	Design a game of tic tac toe, handling winning situation etc. NXN, multiplayer, multiplayer with synchronization, Disaster recovery, data analytics, SWOT of each approach.

Design a Garbage collector like java. How would you detect depended reference loop? 
Hist : Class design, Cycle detection algorithms for disjoint graph( List of connected graph)

 Given a sorted array having duplicate elements,how would you find first index of a given element in O(logn).
Write code for it. Change the condition to find out last index of that elements.
[ Hint Binary search]

Q2. You have a dictionary of words. Given a word, print all anagram are in dictionary . State the data structure to be used to solve this problem.

Q3. Design a Chip-Encryption system. Which will do following operation:
1. Take a word from user
2. Encrypt the word by some Private or public key cryptography or any other algo.
3. Transmit the encrypted word by TCP or UDp or SSL.
Design the class diagram using OOD. Which design pattern you are using to achieve this.

. In a plane n points (X and Y) is given. How will you find out maximum co-liner points. Extend this algorithms. it for point(x,y,z) in 3D plane.

Q2. Reverse a 32-bit integers. write code for it.

Q3. What the different issue in multi-threading ? What is the difference between mutex and semaphore.
Q4. You have a file with million words in it. Find most frequent 10 word in that file. Node that you can store all word in memory.
(Note : Min-Heap + List )

Given a BST, find out the minimum length form root to leaf with sum S. Note that:
a) Path from root to leaf node.
b) Sum of node of the path is S.
c) if multiple such path exist, print minimum length path.
d) What is advantage of BST rather than BT used for this algorithm, how it improve the performance. in BST, is it required to explore both side ?
e) Write working codes for it.

Explain inheritance and Base class is given you need to stop exposing the base class methods without touching the base class at all. It was really tricky.    question i liked it.
What is deadlock and How to detect deadlock in system.
Concept of Database normalization and various types of it.
He also started asking some networking question. Like TCP/IP, socket connection.
How the chat between 2 user work internally, internally how the packets flows between layer. And suppose user A send “Hi” message to user B and user B just shutdown the system. What will happen in that case.

Given a sorted array of number , value K and value X, find the K nearest number to the value
Example: Input 12 16 22 30 35 39 42 45 48 50 53 55 56 K = 4 X = 35
Output 22 30 39 42

t was bit difficult for me to crack, She stated asking from java cloning, which was my weak area. Given a class which contain string Name and reference to person friend, clearly shown below.

Class A {
   A(String str, Person P { //Constructor
       this. name = str;
       this.friend= P ;
   }
   // override
   Clone() {
       // code for this function was expected from me
       // which can produce the deep copy
   }
}
Suppose A–>B–>C–>D means A is friend of B, who is friend of C and so on..
Calling once the Clone method will clone the whole friend list like
A’–>B’–>C’–>D’ (there A’ is the clone of A).

Find common elements out of two sorted array

Given a infinite string of O’s and 1's respectively. You need to find the transition point from 0 to 1.
I gave the native solution in O(n). He told to optimize more. Direct binary search can’t be applied on it because string was infinite and length of string was not given.
I told that i will divide the string in 10 size slots it will reduce complexity. Still he told to optimize more. I told i will increase the slot size in power of 2 like 2,4,8,16,32. he was satisfied with that.
He again complicate it by adding that now my string contain 0, 1, 2 in sorted order. You need to find transition point from 0 to 1 and 1 to 2. i provided the approach.
After that told this time i want to make it generic. String can contain 0 to n(input) number find all the transition point. I solved it, he was satisfy with approach and told me write code for it.

He gave me task scheduling problem:
Given a set of modules, some modules depend on previous modules and can only be executed, if the requirements of that module is complete.

Eg: module A depends on module B,C 
   module B depends on module C and D
   module C depends on E
   module E depends on D
   module D doesn't depend on any other module 
so he asked me to give a schedule for above modules such that when a module is executed then all requirements of that module are complete.
so answer would be D E C B A

Suppose the structure of a binary tree is

    struct node {  int val;  
     struct node *left,*right,*random;
    }node; 
Where random pointer points to any random node of the binary tree and can even point to NULL, then how will you clone this tree.

Given, the starting and ending time of different meetings, what is the minimum number of conference rooms that will be enough to accommodate all of them.He asked me to code it.E.g, :
I/p : Meeting I – 8:30 – 12:50

Meeting II – 10:15 – 11:30

Meeting III – 11:45 – 1:30

O/p : 2
